1. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the loss adjustment process?
A. The first step in the loss adjustment process is to verify coverage.
B. Almost all of the insured＊s duties in the event of loss are designed to prevent litigation.
C. Accurate property value determination is the basis of every claim settlement.
D. The adjuster typically completes the policy review before inspecting the loss.correct

D is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).

A is incorrect. The first step in the loss adjustment process is to acknowledge receipt of the insured＊s report of loss and assign the loss to an adjuster.
B is incorrect. Almost all of the insured＊s duties in the event of loss, as described in the coverage forms, are designed to aid the adjuster＊s investigation.
C is incorrect. Good investigation is the basis of every claim settlement.

2. After an adjuster has completed his or her investigation of the facts regarding a claim, a determination has to be made as to:
A. Whether the insured has completed his or her duties.
B. Whether coverage applies.
C. The ability of the insurer to subrogate the loss.
D. The cause of loss and extent of loss.

D is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

Using the investigation as a basis for an opinion, the adjuster must communicate to the insured whether the loss was caused by a covered cause of loss and, if it was, how much of the loss is recoverable.

3. Although adjuster＊s reports primarily communicate to and document for the insurer what was done to investigate, adjust, settle, and otherwise resolve a claim, they also document for others, such as state insurance authorities or juries. To stand up against allegations of improper claims handling or bad faith, the adjuster＊s reports must reflect:
A. A slow and deliberate handling of the claim.
B. All information about the claim collected from every source.
C. The absence of derogatory comments regarding anyone connected with the claim.correct
D. An unbalanced investigation favoring the interests of the insurer.

C is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. The reports must reflect timely handling of the claim.
B is incorrect. The reports must reflect clear, concise, and accurate information.
D is incorrect. The reports must reflect a fair and balanced investigation regarding the interests of both the insurer and the insured.

4. Which one of the following is a type of report usually filed within the first 24 hours or up to seven days following assignment of a claim?
A. Preliminary report.correct
B. Captioned report.
C. Summarized report.
D. Interim report.

A is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

B is incorrect. The captioned (or summarized) report is typically a very detailed narrative report that follows an established format and is usually filed within 30 days of the assignment＊s date.
C is incorrect. The captioned (or summarized) report is typically a very detailed narrative report that follows an established format and is usually filed within 30 days of the assignment＊s date.
D is incorrect. The interim report is a type of report used to inform the insurer of a claim＊s progress. It can be filed periodically, generally every 15-30 days.

5. Perhaps the most important information the adjuster must convey to the insured in the initial meeting is:
A. Any possible policy violation, exclusion, or limitation that might affect coverage.correct
B. A complete understanding of the policy.
C. Explanation of the adjustment process.
D. The insured＊s rights and duties.

A is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

Perhaps the most important information that the adjuster must convey is any possible policy violation, exclusion, or limitation that might affect coverage. Withholding this type of information might be construed as a breach of the adjuster＊s duty to deal fairly.

6. After acknowledging and assigning the claim, the next activity in the claims handling process is:
A. Identifying the policy.correct
B. Determining the amount of the loss.
C. Investigating and documenting the claim.
D. Determining the cause of loss.

A is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

After receiving the assignment, the claims representative identifies the policy in force and reviews the policy.

B is incorrect. The claims representative needs to review the policy before determining the amount of the loss.
C is incorrect. The claims representative needs to review the policy before investigating and documenting the claim.
D is incorrect. The claims representative needs to review the policy before determining the cause of loss.

7. All of the following represent actions that a claims adjuster should take during an initial meeting with an insured, EXCEPT:
A. Telling the insured what is required to protect the property.
B. Explaining the time involved to process and conclude the claim.
C. Listing the reasons why the claim will likely be paid.correct
D. Assisting the insured in protecting the property.

C is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

The claims representative must be careful to avoid giving the insured the impression that a claim will be paid when there may be grounds to deny the claim.

8. An interim report is used to:
A. Report a loss that exceeds a set dollar amount.
B. Inform the insurer about initial activity on the claim.
C. Report suspected insurance fraud.
D. Inform the insurer of the status of an investigation.correct

D is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

Status, or interim, reports inform the insurer of a claim＊s progress and can be filed periodically.

 

A is incorrect. A summarized report is used when the loss size exceeds a set amount.
B is incorrect. A preliminary report is used to inform the insurer about initial activity on the claim.
C is incorrect. A summarized report is used when insurance fraud is suspected.

9. The insurer begins the loss adjustment process after:
A. Contacting the insured and arranging a meeting at the loss location.
B. Determining the insured has completed all required duties under the policy.
C. Receiving the loss notice from the insured.correct
D. Verifying a policy is in force.

C is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

The loss adjustment process begins when the loss notice is received by the insurer from the insured.

10. Xavier is a claims representative who has been assigned an insurance claim. The insured＊s home was severely damaged by a fire, which is covered under the policy. Which one of the following represents the first step Xavier should take?
A. Hire an origin-and-cause expert to determine the cause of the fire.
B. Assist the insured in accomplishing the specified duties after loss.
C. File a status report with the insurer.
D. Make an emergency advance payment to the insured for living expenses.correct

D is correct (Obj 1 每 Type B).
 

Making emergency advance payments to the insured for clothing, living expenses, food, or other expenses should occur during the initial meeting with the insured.

 

A is incorrect. Determining the cause of loss generally comes after the initial meeting with the insured.
B is incorrect. Assisting the insured in completing the specified duties after loss generally occurs after the initial meeting with the insured.
C is incorrect. Status reports inform the insurer of a claim＊s progress and are generally filed every fifteen to thirty days following assignment.

11. Stephen is a claims adjuster for ABC Insurance Company. He has been assigned a loss report for a suspected theft at Sharon Lawson＊s house. After verifying her insurance coverage, Stephen＊s next course of action should be to:
A. Acknowledge receipt of the report of loss.
B. Initiate contact with Sharon.correct
C. File a written report with the insurer.
D. Determine cause of loss.

B is correct (Obj 1 每 Type B).
 

The next step after verifying coverage is to initiate contact with the insured.

 

A is incorrect. Acknowledging receipt of the insured＊s report of loss is the first step and should be completed before verifying insurance coverage.
C is incorrect. Reporting to the insurer is part of the investigation and should be completed after initiating contact with the insured.
D is incorrect. Determining cause of loss would be completed after the investigation.

12. Public adjusters, active in some states and metropolitan areas, are involved in many claims. These public adjusters are hired by:
A. An appraiser.
B. The policyholder.correct
C. A contractor.
D. The insurer.

B is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).
 

Public adjusters are hired by the insured to represent the insured in a claim.

13. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding public adjusters?
A. An insurance company may hire a public adjuster to prepare the insured＊s claim and negotiate the settlement.
B. All states have statutes that govern the services public adjusters may provide to the consumer.
C. If a claim is complex, or if settlement negotiations have stalled with the insurer, the insured may hire a public adjuster.correct
D. The insurance company pays the public adjuster＊s fee, which is usually a percentage of the settlement.

C is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. The insured, not the insurance company, hires a public adjuster to prepare the claim and negotiate a settlement with the insurance company.
B is incorrect. Some, but not all, states have statutes that govern the services public adjusters can provide.
D is incorrect. The insured pays the public adjuster＊s fee, which is usually a percentage of the settlement.

14. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding public adjusters?
A. They are most often involved in presenting fire claims to insurers.correct
B. They are typically paid by an annual salary from the insurer.
C. They can help the insured by preventing waiver and estoppel.
D. Most states require them to have 10 years＊ claims adjusting experience.

A is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).
 

B is incorrect. Public adjusters are paid by a fee typically equal to 10%-15% of the amount paid under the policy. They are paid by the insured.
C is incorrect. There are many ways public adjusters can help insureds; however, preventing waiver and estoppel is not one of them.
D is incorrect. Most states require public adjusters to be licensed. There is no requirement that they have 10 years＊ claims adjusting experience.

15. All of the following represent ways in which public adjusters can help insureds, EXCEPT:
A. Appearing at examination to object to questions posed by the insurer＊s attorneys.correct
B. Presenting claims in an organized manner.
C. Reassuring the insured that the claim settlement is fair.
D. Compiling and documenting claims to fulfill the insured＊s obligations under the policy.

A is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).
 

Because of public adjusters＊ knowledge of property policies and experience in claims, they can help insured by:

Presenting claims in an organized manner, which may expedite settlement.
Compiling and documenting claims to fulfill the insured's obligations under the policy and to allow the insured to focus on other tasks.
Reassuring the insured that the claim settlement is fair.


16. Public adjusters are most often involved in presenting:
A. Bodily injury liability claims.
B. Fire claims.correct
C. Natural disaster claims.
D. Auto liability claims.

B is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).
 

Public adjusters are most often involved in presenting fire claims to insurers, but they also handle property claims caused by flood, water, wind, burglary, and theft.

17. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding public adjusters?
A. Public adjusters and insurer-employed adjusters have different goals.
B. Claims involving public adjusters fundamentally alter the way an insurer-employed adjuster interacts with an insured.
C. Most public adjusters have worked as property adjusters for one or more insurers.correct
D. Public adjusters typically hinder efficient claims processing.

C is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. Although some claims lead to disputes between public adjusters and insurer-employed adjusters, the goal of both is the property adjustment of the insured＊s claim.
B is incorrect. Claims involving public adjusters should be handled no differently than if an insurer-employed adjuster were dealing directly with the insured, meaning expediently and professionally.
D is incorrect. Public adjusters can help or hinder efficient claims processing, depending on the adjuster or public adjusting firm with whom the insurer is dealing and the claim＊s circumstances.

18. Which one of the following represents the role of a public adjuster?
A. Help insureds present claims to insurers for a fee.correct
B. Contract with insurers to cover extra claims occurring after catastrophes.
C. Provide free claims handling advice to low-income insureds.
D. Conduct government-sponsored audits of claims adjusters.

A is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).
 

Public adjusters are hired by insureds to act on behalf of insureds. The fee for their services is typically 10-15% of the amount paid under the policy.

19. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the gathering of statements from the insured and witnesses?
A. In all jurisdictions, statements cause the insurer to waive their rights to an examination of the insured under oath.
B. Witness statements are especially important if fraud is suspected.correct
C. A statement is only valid if it is written.
D. In large and complicated losses, the insured＊s statement is often waived.

B is correct (Obj 3 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. In some jurisdictions, statements can cause the insurer to waive their rights to an examination of the insured under oath. However, this is not the case in all jurisdictions.
C is incorrect. Statements can either be written or recorded.
D is incorrect. In large complicated losses, especially those involving a coverage question or suspected insurance fraud, the insured＊s statement is an essential part of the investigation.

20. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the verification of losses?
A. An adjuster would most likely use extremely close-up photography when disputing a warranty provision.
B. An insured＊s statement is typically waived when the loss is subrogated.
C. Diagrams allow the adjuster to calculate repair costs and inform the insurance company of the extent of loss.correct
D. A list of the areas damaged, that includes a description of the proposed action to take, is known as an action plan.

C is correct (Obj 3 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. An adjuster most likely uses extremely close-up photography to show a serial number on an appliance.
B is incorrect. An insured＊s statement is typically waived when the claim is small.
D is incorrect. A list of the areas damaged, that includes a description of the proposed action to take, is known as a scope or scope sheet.

21. In some jurisdictions, if an insurer obtains a statement from the insured, it might:
A. Require the insurer to conduct an examination under oath.
B. Waive the required filing by the insured of a sworn statement in a proof of loss.correct
C. Relieve the insured from some of his or her duties normally required after a loss.
D. Be required to provide the insured with legal counsel while recording the statement.

B is correct (Obj 3 每 Type A).
 

In some states or jurisdictions, obtaining a statement might waive the required filing by the insured of a sworn statement in a proof of loss; it might also waive the insurer＊s rights to an examination of the insured under oath.

22. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding documentation during the loss verification step in the loss adjustment process?
A. Most insurers have claims handling guidelines that outline the many possible ways to document a loss.correct
B. Extremely close photography is usually needed to show the location of an item.
C. Adjusters typically sketch out a floor plan by first measuring the interior rooms and then diagramming the structure＊s entire exterior perimeter.
D. Books and records are considered an unreliable method for documenting losses.

A is correct (Obj 3 每 Type A).
 

B is incorrect. Extremely close photography is usually needed to depict nameplates with an item＊s manufacturer＊s name, model, and serial number.
C is incorrect. The adjuster typically starts by measuring and diagramming the structure's entire exterior perimeter and then measures the interior rooms, noting each room＊s measurements.
D is incorrect. Books and records are useful in documenting loss to stock, inventory, and personal property.

23. Which one of the following is a reason why adjusters must document the extent of loss or damage?
A. To inform the insured of the magnitude of the loss so proper reserves can be established.
B. To assist contractors in the completion of repairs or reconstruction.
C. To establish the cost of repairs or replacement for financial statement purposes.
D. To avoid disputes with the insured as to the amount payable.correct

D is correct (Obj 3 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. Adjusters must document the extent of loss or damage to inform the insurer of the magnitude of the loss so proper case reserves can be established.
B is incorrect. Adjusters must document the extent of loss or damage to assist contractors in preparing bids for repairs or reconstruction.
C is incorrect. Adjusters must document the extent of loss or damage to establish the cost of repairs or replacement for ultimate settlement.

24. What is the ultimate purpose of using experts in claims situations?
A. To make an insurer＊s case stronger during litigation.
B. To explain complicated insurance concepts to insureds.
C. To assist the adjuster in determining whether the claim is payable and how much should be paid.correct
D. To relieve over-worked and over-burdened claims adjusters.

C is correct (Obj 4 每 Type A).
 

The ultimate purpose of using experts is to assist the adjuster in determining whether and to what extent coverage should apply.

25. Dominic suffered a total loss to his business, and his building contractor needs to calculate accurate estimates to obtain remodeling or building permits. Which one of the following experts may need to be consulted to draw the plans and provide specifications for the reconstruction of Dominic＊s structure?
A. An origin-and-cause expert.
B. A contractor.
C. An engineer.
D. An architect.correct

D is correct (Obj 4 每 Type B).
 

Architects are sometimes needed to draw plans and provide specifications for partial and complete reconstruction of structures.

26. After a fire in one part of her home, Giovanna is upset to find her collection of paintings and other artwork has been damaged by the smoke that filled the house. To limit the amount of damage to the paintings, which kind of expert should Giovanna consult?
A. An appraiser.
B. A private investigator.
C. A restoration specialist.correct
D. A salvor.

C is correct (Obj 4 每 Type B).
 

Restoration specialists are firms specializing in cleaning structures, equipment, stock, merchandise, and personal property following a loss caused by fire, smoke, water, windstorm, or another peril.

27. Nathan, a property loss claim adjuster, has been assigned a fire loss at a women＊s clothing boutique. In looking for help to separate out the merchandise that might still be salable, Nathan should consider using:
A. An attorney.
B. A salvor.correct
C. A restoration specialist.
D. A contractor.

B is correct (Obj 4 每 Type B).
 

Salvors are specialists who separate damaged merchandise from undamaged merchandise, prepare inventories of damaged and destroyed property, and establish values of damaged or destroyed business property.

28. Brenda and her insurer are disagreeing about the value of her vintage clothing collection. To help settle this dispute, Brenda and her insurer should contact:
A. An appraiser.correct
B. An attorney.
C. An accountant.
D. A private investigator.

A is correct (Obj 4 每 Type B).
 

Appraisers are needed to establish the value of personal property, merchandise, equipment, and real property for settlement or for resolving disputes about the amount of loss.

29. Terry is a property loss claim adjuster who is involved in a fairly complex fire loss case. If she has trouble determining how the fire started, she should enlist the help of:
A. An engineer.
B. An origin-and-cause expert.correct
C. A private investigator.
D. A contractor.

B is correct (Obj 4 每 Type B).
 

An origin-and-cause expert is an expert who independently determines how and where a fire began.

30. Cynthia is a property loss claim adjuster working on a business loss case. She is doubtful that the insured had as much inventory as he claimed and is concerned that he has exaggerated the extent of the loss. Which one of the following experts would be most useful to Cynthia while investigating this claim?
A. An appraiser.
B. A salvor.
C. An accountant.correct
D. An attorney.

C is correct (Obj 4 每 Type B).
 

An accountant can help resolve cases in which the insured might have overstated or exaggerated the amount of a loss in the claim and can help determine whether the insured actually had the funds to purchase the property that was purportedly stolen or destroyed.

31. When an insurer pays a claim to an insured due to a loss caused by a negligent third party, the insurer can recover damages from the negligent third party through the right of:
A. Subrogation.correct
B. Reimbursement.
C. Indemnity.
D. Arbitration.

A is correct (Obj 5 每 Type A).
 

Subrogation is the process by which an insurer can recover amounts paid for a loss from the negligent party responsible for the loss.

32. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the concept of subrogation?
A. Subrogation rights are established by insurance policies and by law.correct
B. The insurer has the right to recover the amount paid under the policy from the insured if he or she was deemed negligent.
C. The insured is said to be subrogated to the rights of the insurer.
D. The insurer only has the right of subrogation if it is included in the policy conditions.

A is correct (Obj 5 每 Type A).
 

B is incorrect. The insurer has the right to recover the amount paid under the policy from any party other than the insured.
C is incorrect. The insurer is said to be subrogated to the rights of the insured, who is the party who would normally have the right to receive payment for damages.
D is incorrect. The insurer has a right of subrogation implied in law regardless of whether the policy expresses such a provision.

33. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the concept of subrogation?
A. Arbitration is used when a coverage dispute exists between insurers.
B. The insurer has a right to subrogate for losses that the policyholder absorbs because of lack of coverage under the policy.
C. The Property Subrogation Arbitration Agreement is a mandatory arbitration program for certain claims.correct
D. Some policies, such as the personal auto policy, permit the policyholder to waive rights of recovery after a loss.

C is correct (Obj 5 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. Arbitration cannot be used to resolve coverage disputes.
B is incorrect. The insurer would have no right of recovery for losses that the policyholder absorbs because of lack of coverage, exclusions, or coverage limitations under the policy.
D is incorrect. Some policies permit the policyholder to waive rights of recovery before (not after) a loss.

34. Two insurers are in dispute over a claim and have submitted it to arbitration. Both insurers are signatories of the Property Subrogation Arbitration Agreement. What is the maximum value for a property damage claim under the Property Subrogation Arbitration Agreement?
A. $1,000.
B. $10,000.
C. $100,000.correct
D. $1,000,000.

C is correct (Obj 5 每 Type A).
 

Signatory companies are bound to forego litigation and in place thereof submit to arbitration any questions or disputes that may arise from any fire subrogation or property damage claim not in excess of $100,000.

35. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding reinsurance?
A. Each state sets a dollar threshold for the amount of the loss that will require an insurer to issue notice to the reinsurer.
B. Reinsurers have no legal right to participate in a claim＊s investigation and settlement.
C. Property risks are rarely subject to reinsurance.
D. A fiduciary relationship exists between the insurer and the reinsurer.correct

D is correct (Obj 5 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. Each insurer sets a dollar threshold for the amount of the loss that will require notice to the reinsurer.
B is incorrect. Reinsurers have the right to participate in a claim＊s investigation and settlement.
C is incorrect. Many property risks are subject to reinsurance.

36. William is an arbitrator involved in an intercompany arbitration case between applicant Insurer ABC and respondent Insurer XYZ. When William makes his decision on the case:
A. Insurer ABC has 30 days to make an appeal.
B. Insurer XYZ has 30 days to make an appeal.
C. Either insurer can appeal the decision within 90 days.
D. The decision is final and binding with no right of appeal.correct

D is correct (Obj 5 每 Type B).
 

Except under very limited circumstances, such as lack of jurisdiction, the decision of the arbitrator is final and binding with no right of rehearing or appeal.

37. Selma was involved in a motor vehicle accident with an intoxicated driver. In order for her insurer to establish the legal basis for recovery, it is likely the insurer will require Selma to:
A. Provide an oral statement.
B. Appear in court and give testimony.correct
C. File a lawsuit against the other driver.
D. File a claim against the other driver＊s insurance.

B is correct (Obj 5 每 Type B).
 

The subrogation agreement typically requires the insured to give testimony and appear in court, when necessary, so that the insurer can establish the legal basis to recover.

38. Before storing his belongings at Humdinger Self Storage, Walter signed a form releasing Humdinger from liability due to damage of property in its care. Due to this release, Walter＊s insurer will:
A. Waive its right of subrogation.correct
B. Be liable for any loss to Walter＊s belongings that occur while in the storage unit.
C. Cancel Walter＊s policy.
D. Sue Humdinger Self Storage for any damage to Walter＊s belongings while left in the storage unit.

A is correct (Obj 5 每 Type B).
 

Some policies permit the insured to waive rights of recovery before a loss. In those cases, the insurer waives its right of subrogation.

39. Bronwen is a claims adjuster handling a small case where there is a possibility of subrogation against a third party. She decides against hiring an expert due to the cost and plans to gather evidence for the subrogation case herself. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the way Bronwen should handle the evidence?
A. Bronwen should not handle the evidence on her own and should get authorization from an attorney before proceeding with the investigation.
B. Bronwen should take photos and video of the evidence and not remove anything from the scene.
C. Bronwen should obtain the property owner＊s written permission before removing evidence from the scene.correct
D. Bronwen should store all evidence in a temperature-controlled, dark room.

C is correct (Obj 5 每 Type B).
 

If an expert is not hired to gather and preserve evidence, it will be the adjuster＊s responsibility to do so. It is advisable to get the property owner＊s permission in writing before taking any evidence from the scene.