1. The method of determining amounts payable for a property loss by subtracting depreciation from replacement cost is:
A. Actual Cash Value.
B. Functional Valuation Approach.
C. Market Value.
D. Obsolescence.

A is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

B is incorrect. Function Valuation Approach is a valuation method in which the insurer is required to pay no more than the cost to repair or replace the damaged or destroyed property with property that is its function equivalent.
C is incorrect. Market Value is the price at which a particular piece of property could be sold on the open market by an unrelated buyer and seller.
D is incorrect. Obsolescence is the loss of value caused by changes in technology or fashion.

2. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding property valuation?
A. Replacement cost can only be determined if the item of damaged property is still being manufactured.
B. A policy on an older, Victorian-style home may be written using a functional valuation approach.
C. Straight-line depreciation is most appropriate when determining the value of items such as computer equipment and electronics.
D. Actual cash value provisions technically violate the insurance principle of indemnity.

B is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. Replacement cost can still be determined if the item of property is no longer being made.
C is incorrect. Computer equipment and electronics typically depreciate rapidly when first purchased. As a result, accelerated depreciation may be a more appropriate method of depreciation.
D is incorrect. Replacement cost provisions violate the insurance principle of indemnity.

3. Even if property has incurred no real wear and tear, it may lose value through:
A. Decelerated depreciation.
B. Market value.
C. The principle of indemnity.
D. Obsolescence.

D is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).

Obsolescence is the loss of value caused by changes in technology or fashion and is another factor, besides wear and tear, that may contribute to property＊s depreciation.

A is incorrect. Decelerated depreciation is depreciation that occurs slightly for a given time period and then increases rapidly.
B is incorrect. Market value is the price at which a particular piece of property could be sold on the open market by an unrelated buyer and seller.
C is incorrect. The principle of indemnity states that insurance policies should provide a benefit no greater than the loss suffered by an insured.

4. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding property valuation concepts?
A. Declining-balance depreciation calculates depreciation by taking an equal amount of an asset＊s cost for each year of the asset＊s useful life.
B. Market value is the price at which a particular piece of property could be sold on the open market by a professional sales agent.
C. Most insurance companies publish guides that indicate the average expected useful life of various items.
D. The broad evidence rule requires property loss adjusters to consider all relevant factors when determining replacement cost.

C is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).

A is incorrect. Straight-line depreciation calculates depreciation by taking an equal amount of an asset＊s cost for each year of the asset＊s useful life.
B is incorrect. An item＊s market value is the amount at which a knowledgeable buyer under no unusual pressure would be willing to buy an item and a knowledgeable seller under no unusual pressure would be willing to sell it.
D is incorrect. The broad evidence rule is a court ruling explicitly requiring that all relevant factors be considered in determining actual cash value.

5. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the market value approach to determining actual cash value (ACV)?
A. It determines ACV by subtracting depreciation from an asset＊s replacement cost.
B. It functions properly only when the market consists of a small number of buyers and sellers.
C. It is particularly useful when an asset has a readily determinable replacement cost.
D. It is the required method of determining ACV in some states.

D is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).

A is incorrect. Replacement cost less depreciation is a separate method of determining actual cash value.
B is incorrect. The market value approach may not be a true indicator of value if there are a small number of buyers and sellers.
C is incorrect. The market value approach is particularly useful when an asset has no real replacement cost.

6. Janet owns a farm with the land valued at $40,000, a house valued at $75,000, a truck valued at $10,000, and miscellaneous property valued at $50,000. What is the market value of Janet＊s real property?
A. $40,000.
B. $75,000.
C. $115,000.
D. $175,000.

C is correct (Obj 1 每 Type B).
 

Real property＊s market valuation includes both the land＊s value and the structure＊s value.
Real property value = land + structure
Real property value = $40,000 + $75,000
Real property value = $115,000

7. Mark bought a house for $30,000 in 1975. With inflation and an increased cost of labor, home values have increased. Mark has decided to sell his house and move to a new city. The depreciation on Mark＊s house is $20,000, and it was appraised at $80,000. He sells his house for $95,000 within two weeks of putting it on the market. The market value of Mark＊s house is:
A. $30,000.
B. $75,000.
C. $80,000.
D. $95,000.

D is correct (Obj 1 每 Type B).

Market value is the price at which a particular piece of property could be sold on the open market by an unrelated buyer and seller.

8. Hans, an amateur photographer, recently experienced a fire in his home. It was quickly extinguished, and the only loss was to his photography equipment. Hans purchased the camera and lenses two years ago for $2,500. The replacement cost for the equipment today is $2,100, and the depreciation is $500. Hans has actual cash value coverage for this loss under his insurance policy. Ignoring any applicable deductible, how much will Hans＊s insurer pay for the photography equipment?
A. $1,600.
B. $2,000.
C. $2,100.
D. $2,500.

A is correct (Obj 1 每 Type B).

Actual cash value (ACV) is generally determined by replacement cost minus depreciation.
ACV = replacement cost - depreciation
ACV = $2,100 - $500
ACV = $1,600

9. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the ※repair or replace§ claims settlement option?
A. The ※repair or replace§ option increases the insurer＊s exposure on the loss.
B. An insured has the sole discretion on whether to exercise the ※repair or replace§ option.
C. Despite the large volume of business insurers do with replacement services, it is more expensive than settling in cash.
D. Insurers may exercise the ※repair or replace§ option when the insured is suspected of trying to profit from the claim.

D is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).

A is incorrect. The ※repair or replace§ option limits the insurer＊s exposure on the loss.
B is incorrect. An insurer has the sole discretion on whether to exercise the ※repair or replace§ option. The insured cannot insist that the insurer repair or replace property.
C is incorrect. Settling the claim using the ※repair or replace§ option is generally less expensive.

10. Under which one of the following circumstances is an insurer most likely to elect to replace lost or damaged property through a replacement service company?
A. When a certain type of loss occurs frequently.
B. When there is a very slim profit margin on a product.
C. When the insurer specializes in covering a specific type of property.
D. When an insurer is setting up business in a new state.

A is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).
 
The higher the markup on an item and the more frequent the type of loss for the insurer, the greater the likelihood that the insurer will elect to replace the property through one of these services.

11. Will is a claims adjuster for an insurer and suspects that homeowner Christopher has submitted a fraudulent claim for missing jewelry. Will cannot prove fraud, but he can limit the insurer＊s loss exposure by:
A. Referencing the broad evidence rule.
B. Enforcing policy limits.
C. Denying the claim.
D. Exercising the ※repair or replace§ option.

D is correct (Obj 2 每 Type B).

The ※repair or replace§ option limits the insurer＊s exposure on the loss even if a falsified claim has been submitted.

12. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the stated or agreed value loss settlement provision?
A. It is imposed by law.
B. It cannot be used when the replacement cost of an asset is difficult to determine.
C. It is a common approach with property floaters.
D. It is the same as valued policy laws.

C is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).

A is incorrect. The stated or agreed amount is determined by agreement between the insured and the insurer.
B is incorrect. The stated or agreed value loss settlement provision is preferable when it is difficult to determine an asset＊s replacement cost or actual cash value.
D is incorrect. Unlike valued policy laws, the stated or agreed value loss settlement provision is not legislatively imposed.

13. Which one of the following loss settlement provisions would be applicable to a tenant＊s improvements and betterments?
A. Stated or Agreed Value.
B. Original Cost.
C. Selling Price.
D. Warranty Services.

B is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).

Loss settlements on a tenant＊s improvements and betterments are sometimes settled based on the unused amount of the original cost of the improvements and betterments.

14. Michael had two custom-made lanterns, one located on each side of his driveway in the front of his house. One of the lanterns was stolen, and it cannot be replaced. Information regarding the lanterns:
Original cost of lanterns 每 $2,000 for the pair
Actual cash value of one lantern 每 $1,000
Actual cash value of lanterns as a pair 每 $4,000
Assuming Michael has an HO-3 policy, how much will the policy pay him?

A. $1,000.
B. $2,000.
C. $3,000.
D. $4,000.

C is correct (Obj 2 每 Type B).

If the lanterns cannot be replaced, the insurer will generally be required to pay Michael for the value lost.

Value lost = Actual cash value of lanterns as a pair ($4,000) less Actual cash value of one lantern ($1,000) = $3,000

15. Which one of the following represents an insurance policy issued without a coinsurance clause?
A. Retroactive policy.
B. Flat policy.
C. Governed policy.
D. Independent policy.

B is correct (Obj 3 每 Type A).
 

A flat policy is a policy that is issued without a coinsurance clause.

16. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding blanket insurance?
A. It is the default method of insuring buildings and personal property.
B. It requires the insured to maintain an 80% coinsurance percentage.
C. It is limited to one type of personal property in one scheduled building.
D. It imposes one limit of insurance for a combination of buildings and business personal property.

D is correct (Obj 3 每 Type A).

A is incorrect. Blanket insurance is insurance that covers either of the following, with one limit of insurance: (1) one type of property in one or more separately rated buildings or (2) two or more types of property in one or more separately rated buildings. Specific insurance is the default method of insuring buildings and personal property.
B is incorrect. Under a blanket insurance policy, the insured must maintain a 90% coinsurance percentage.
C is incorrect. Blanket insurance covers either (1) one type of property in one or more separately-rated buildings, or (2) two or more types of property in one or more separately-rated buildings.

17. Terry and Mary Ann have a home with a $250,000 replacement cost and an HO-3 每 Special Form policy with a Coverage A limit of $210,000. A strong windstorm rips the air conditioning unit from their bedroom window and destroys it beyond repair. The unit has a replacement cost of $2,000 and is half-way through its useful life. Ignoring any deductible that might apply, how much will the insurer pay to replace the air conditioning unit?
A. $0.
B. $500.
C. $1,000.
D. $2,000.

D is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).
 

Since the limit of insurance is more than 80% of the replacement cost of the air conditioning unit, the insurer will pay for the replacement cost of the damage up to the limit of the coverage.

18. Joe and Vera purchase a home for $200,000 that has a current replacement cost of $175,000. They have an unendorsed HO-3 每 Special Form policy with a Coverage A limit of $150,000. A tornado rips through their neighborhood and completely destroys their house. Ignoring any deductible that may apply, how much will Joe and Vera＊s insurer pay for their destroyed house under the policy?
A. $125,000.
B. $150,000.
C. $175,000.
D. $200,000.

B is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).
 

If the limit of insurance is 80% or more of the replacement cost, the insurer will pay for the replacement cost of the damage up to the limit of coverage. Since the limit of coverage, $150,000, is 86% of the replacement cost, the insurer will pay $150,000.

19. Harry＊s hardware store has a replacement cost of $250,000, though he only insures it for $175,000. His property insurance policy has an 80% coinsurance requirement. If Harry suffers a $50,000 loss to his hardware store, how much will his insurer pay, disregarding any deductibles?
A. $30,000.
B. $36,350.
C. $43,750.
D. $50,000.

C is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).
 

With an 80% coinsurance requirement, Harry is inadequately insured. The minimum amount of insurance required is 80% x $250,000, or $200,000. If Harry were to suffer a loss under this set of circumstances, the amount paid would be calculated using this formula:

Amount paid = (Amount of insurance carried/Amount of insurance required) x Amount of loss
Amount paid = ($175,000/$200,000) x $50,000
Amount paid = $43,750

20. A brewery owns a building worth $5,000,000. It has insured the building for $3,600,000 and the policy has a 90% coinsurance clause. If a fire caused $4,200,000 of damage to the building, how much could the brewery expect to receive from the insurer?
A. $0.
B. $3,360,000.
C. $3,600,000.
D. $3,780,000.

B is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).
 

Amount of insurance required because of 90% coinsurance clause = $5,000,000 x 90% = $4,500,000.

 

The insured only carried $3,600,000 of insurance; therefore, the coinsurance requirement was not met.
$3,600,000 / $4,500,000 = 80%

 

Only 80% of any loss will be paid because of the coinsurance penalty.

 

Amount paid by insurer = $4,200,000 x 80% = $3,360,000

21. To apply a deductible to the actual loss before applying any coverage limits is known as:
A. A split deductible.
B. A flat deductible.
C. Coinsurance.
D. Absorbing a deductible.

D is correct (Obj 4 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. A split deductible applies different deductibles for different causes of loss.
B is incorrect. A flat deductible is a deductible stated as a specified dollar amount.
C is incorrect. Coinsurance is a clause that requires the insured to carry an amount of insurance greater than or equal to a specified percentage.

22. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding deductibles?
A. Deductibles eliminate the insurer＊s obligation for small losses.
B. As deductibles increase, premiums also increase.
C. Most homeowners policies have a split deductible.
D. Commercial property policies typically have a standard $5,000 deductible.

A is correct (Obj 4 每 Type A).

B is incorrect. As deductibles increase, premiums decrease.
C is incorrect. Most homeowners policies have a flat deductible.
D is incorrect. Commercial property policies typically have a standard $500 deductible. This deductible can be increased.

23. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding settlements involving other insurance?
A. An insurance policy will provide excess coverage unless the policy specifically states the coverage is primary.
B. A policy with an excess-of-other-insurance clause is an excess policy.
C. Overlapping coverage typically occurs inadvertently.
D. When determining if other insurance exists, the first step for an adjuster is to check with the NAIC.

C is correct (Obj 5 每 Type A).

A is incorrect. The general rule is that a policy will provide primary coverage unless it states otherwise.
B is incorrect. A policy with an excess-of-other-insurance clause is a primary policy.
D is incorrect. When determining if other insurance exists, the first step for an adjuster is to check with the insured.

24. If one policy states that it is pro rata and the other policy states that it is excess:
C. Both policies will pay an equal share.
D. The excess clause is effective, and the pro rata policy becomes primary.
A. The excess policy will pay its proportional share.
B. Both policies will be treated as primary.

D is correct (Obj 5 每 Type A).

The general rule is that coverage is primary unless the policy states otherwise. If one policy states that it is pro rata and the other policy states that it is excess, the excess clause is effective, and the pro rata policy becomes primary.

25. Kirk and Kris have a fencing business they insure under three separate insurance policies. Policy A has a limit of $10,000, Policy B has a limit of $30,000, and Policy C has a limit of $20,000. If the insurers use the proportional share method and a covered loss worth $18,000 occurs, Policy B will pay:
A. $0.
B. $9,000.
C. $10,000.
D. $18,000.

B is correct (Obj 5 每 Type B).

With the proportional share method, the insurers contribute to the loss payment in the proportion to which they contribute to the total amount of coverage purchased.

Policy B＊s proportional share = (Policy＊s B amount of coverage/Total amount of coverage) x loss
Policy B＊s proportional share = ($30,000/($10,000 + $30,000 + $20,000)) x $18,000
Policy B＊s proportional share = ($30,000/$60,000) x $18,000
Policy B＊s proportional share = 0.5 x $18,000
Policy B＊s proportional share = $9,000

26. Tim has property insurance on the same property with two different insurers. Insurer 1 covers his property for $80,000, and Insurer 2 covers his property for $100,000. Tim experiences a $60,000 loss. If the insurers take a payment by equal shares approach to the loss, how much will Insurer 1 pay for this loss?
A. $0.
B. $27,000.
C. $30,000.
D. $60,000.

C is correct (Obj 5 每 Type B).
 
Under payment by equal shares, the loss is paid equally by both policies until one policy is exhausted; then the other policy alone pays.

27. If the insurer sends a letter to the insured ※demanding§ an appraisal and the insured refuses, the insurer can:
A. Sue the insured.
B. Pay for the appraisal on its own.
C. Deny the claim.
D. Cancel the policy.

C is correct (Obj 6 每 Type A).

If an insured denies an insurer＊s ※demands§ for an appraisal, it would be considered a violation of a policy condition, and the insurer could deny the claim based on that violation.

28. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the appraisal provision?
A. Any agreement between two of the three parties sets the amount of loss.
B. The provision requires the insured to bear the cost of the appraisers.
C. It is advised that the appraisers confer with each other before beginning the process.
D. The provision states that the insurer and the insured should choose the umpire in the event of a disagreement between the appraisers.

A is correct (Obj 6 每 Type A).
 

B is incorrect. The provision requires each of the parties to the appraisal to bear their own appraiser＊s costs.
C is incorrect. The policy stipulates that each appraiser ※separately set the amount of loss.§ However, following their reviews, the two appraisers should try to agree on the scope of the damage.
D is incorrect. The provision states that the two appraisers should choose the umpire. When no agreement on the umpire can be reached, the selection goes to a court having jurisdiction over the dispute for resolution.

29. Winston suffers a loss to his house, which is covered under an HO-3 每 Special Form. He files a claim and expects the insurer to pay $25,000. The insurer offers him $10,000. How would the appraisal process resolve this dispute?
A. Winston would hire an attorney to represent him in a suit against the insurer.
B. The insurer will pay the average of the loss amounts, or $17,500.
C. Winston and the insurer would each choose and pay for their own appraiser.
D. The insurer would pay for an appraiser that would represent both Winston and the insurer.

C is correct (Obj 6 每 Type B).
 

If the insured and the insurer cannot agree on the amount of a loss, the Appraisal condition outlines a method for resolving the disagreement. Winston and the insurer would each choose and pay for their own appraiser.

If the two appraisers disagree on a value, the differences would be submitted to an impartial umpire.

A is incorrect. The appraisal process would involve Winston and the insurer each hiring an appraiser.
B is incorrect. The appraisers would decide the amount of the loss.
D is incorrect. Each party pays for their own appraiser.