1. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding adjusting of large losses involving merchandise?
A. On merchandise losses, the adjuster should leave the determination of loss and damage to the insured.
B. If the insured is inflexible about a percentage of damage allowance, the adjuster has the right to deny the claim.
C. During the first visit, the adjuster should exercise the insurer＊s right of access to all books and records of the insured＊s business.
D. A salvage clause requires the manufacturer＊s label to be removed from all merchandise taken in salvage by the insurer.

C is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
A is incorrect. On merchandise losses, the adjuster should not leave the determination of loss and damage to the insured.
B is incorrect. If the insured is inflexible about a percentage of damage allowance, the adjuster has the right to take over the damaged merchandise for salvage disposal.
D is incorrect. A brands and labels clause requires the manufacturer＊s label to be removed from all merchandise taken in salvage by the insurer.

2. During their first visit with the insured regarding a merchandise loss, the adjuster should be cautious not to make any commitments that waive policy conditions. All of the following represent commitments that could waive policy conditions, EXCEPT:
A. Making a decision on the property adjustment that might be prejudicial to adjusting the business income claim.
B. Giving permission to inventory merchandise before it has been moved.
C. Approving expenses that, although possibly covered, might not be justified by the circumstances.
D. Approving expenses that later prove not to be covered under the policy.

B is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

Giving permission to move merchandise before it has been inventoried could waive the policy conditions, NOT giving permission to inventory merchandise before it has been moved.

3. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the adjustment of merchandise losses?
A. The insured who keeps merchandise on a percentage-of-damage settlement need not remove labels.
B. Merchandise damaged but still salable at the retail level is worth the most to the salvor.
C. Adjusters should always use outside salvors when settling small merchandise loss claims.
D. During the first visit with the insured, the adjuster should describe every aspect of the adjustment process.

A is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).
 

B is incorrect. Merchandise damaged but still salable at the retail level is worth the most to the insured.
C is incorrect. The adjuster should establish the accurate measure of the insured＊s actual loss, without bringing in outside salvors or accountants.
D is incorrect. During the first visit with the insured, the adjuster should establish general procedures that will be followed during the adjustment process. The adjuster should not try to describe every aspect of an adjustment.

4. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding percentage damage settlements?
A. The salvor should make the decisions that are typically made by the adjuster.
B. The insurer could pay the insured the full value of the merchandise and then take the salvage.
C. The salvor would take ownership of the property and split the sales proceeds between the insured and the insurer.
D. Merchandise damaged but still salable at the retail level is most valuable to the insurer.

B is correct (Obj 1 每 Type A).

A is incorrect. The salvor＊s advice should guide the adjuster, but the salvor does not take the place of the adjuster.
C is incorrect. The salvor does not take ownership of the merchandise.
D is incorrect. Merchandise damaged but still salable at the retail level is most valuable to the insured.

5. A bike store has suffered a fire loss. The insured believes the merchandise has lost at least 45% of its value and also believes it could be sold for no more than 55% of its value. The insurer could reimburse the insured for the full pre-loss value of the merchandise, then take the merchandise for salvage. To be fair to both the insured and the insurer, settlement should be made at a loss figure between:
A. 0%-45%.
B. 45%-55%.
C. 45%-100%.
D. 55%-100%.

B is correct (Obj 1 每 Type B).

To be fair to both parties, the loss payment should be between 45% (the least the merchant would accept) and 55% (the most the insurer would pay).

6. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the valuation of merchandise?
A. Commercial property policies normally insure retail merchandise using the agreed value method.
B. Incoming freight charges are ignored when determining the replacement cost of damaged merchandise.
C. The principal causes of depreciation when determining actual cash value are obsolescence and physical damage.
D. In general, the insured＊s costs in a given wholesale market can be interpreted as an accurate reflection of undepreciated actual cash value.

C is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. Commercial property policies normally insure retail merchandise using either replacement cost or actual cash value.
B is incorrect. Incoming freight charges are amounts paid by the insured to have goods shipped to the insured＊s premises. Incoming freight charges are included in the replacement cost of the merchandise.
D is incorrect. In general, the insured＊s costs in a given wholesale market can be interpreted as an accurate reflection of market value.

7. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding valuation concepts relating to merchandise?
A. The FIFO method is an accounting method that assumes a consistent profit percentage so that goods marked down at retail also lose value on the business＊s books.
B. Adjusters should use the accounting method for determining value that mirrors the insured＊s accounting system of valuation.
C. Internal handling costs are added to the cost of the merchandise sold.
D. Calculating the actual cash value of the merchandise is easier than calculating its replacement cost because most policies clearly define actual cash value.

B is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. The retail method of accounting is an accounting method that assumes a consistent profit percentage so that goods marked down at retail also lose value on the business＊s books.
C is incorrect. Internal handling costs are not added to the cost of the merchandise sold. If external handling costs are discovered, they can be included.
D is incorrect. Calculating the actual cash value of the merchandise is more difficult than calculating its replacement cost. Insurance policies do not define ※actual cash value.§

8. External handling costs can be included in the value of stock if they are identified in an insured＊s accounting records. However, insureds do not always want these costs counted in the value of the stock because these costs:
A. Cause the stock to be subject to a sublimit under the policy.
B. Reduce the manufacturer＊s net income.
C. Cause the stock to be valued at replacement cost rather than actual cash value.
D. Increase the stock＊s value for coinsurance purposes.

D is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).
 

External handling costs will increase the value of the stock for settlement purposes but also increase the value for coinsurance purposes. This increases the likelihood that a coinsurance penalty will be incurred.

9. All of the following statements are correct regarding the determination of replacement cost of merchandise, EXCEPT:
A. Replacement cost would be reduced for the cost of insurance on the merchandise.
B. Replacement cost would be increased by any incoming freight costs associated with the merchandise.
C. Replacement cost would be reduced by any trade discounts on the merchandise.
D. Replacement cost would be increased by the cost of arranging the merchandise in the insured＊s premises.

A is correct (Obj 2 每 Type A).

The cost of any insurance on the merchandise would not be considered in the determination of the replacement cost.

10. CJ＊s Shoe Store sends out a printed ad with promotional markdowns on select popular brands of shoes. The ad also includes shoes that are at retail price. Assuming the markdowns are temporary and will return to retail price once the promotion has ended, what method is CJ＊s Shoe Store utilizing to attract customers?
A. Loss leaders.
B. Retail optimization.
C. Tactical trading.
D. Obsolescence marketing.

A is correct (Obj 2 每 Type B).

Loss leaders are product markdowns that bring customers into the store to purchase items at a promotional price. Once the promotion has ended, the prices will return to retail.

11. Nina＊s Pet Shop has been purchasing from Catra＊s Cat Toy Suppliers for 15 years. As Catra＊s loyal customer who consistently makes payments on time, Nina＊s Pet Shop is granted reductions from the stated purchase price on cat toys that are purchased in bulk. These price reductions are commonly referred to as:
A. Markdowns and loss leaders.
B. Bonus transactions.
C. Loss leaders.
D. Trade discounts and allowances.

D is correct (Obj 2 每 Type B).

Trade discounts and allowances are reduced purchase prices that suppliers grant insured merchants for making bulk purchases or for making payments on time.

12. Merchandise that is damaged beyond recognition poses a problem for an adjuster because it cannot be identified or inventoried. This type of merchandise is referred to as:
A. Written-off merchandise.
B. Compromised merchandise.
C. Out-of-sight merchandise.
D. Untraceable merchandise.

C is correct (Obj 3 每 Type A).

Out-of-sight merchandise is merchandise that is damaged beyond recognition. If merchandise has been damaged beyond recognition or completely destroyed, adjusters will refer to the insured＊s books and records to establish acceptable values.

13. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the income statement?
A. It is also referred to as the statement of assets and liabilities.
B. It represents the income and expenses for a business for a single moment in time.
C. It is typically prepared using the cash method of accounting to satisfy Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
D. It is often prepared monthly so merchants can track business trends.

D is correct (Obj 3 每 Type A).

A is incorrect. The income statement is also referred to as the profit and loss statement or the earnings statement.
B is incorrect. The income statement reflects the income and expenses for a business for a period of time, such as one month or a full year.
C is incorrect. The income statement is typically prepared under the accrual method of accounting.

14. Tom＊s Tools incurred flood damage during a tropical storm, which destroyed most of their inventory. David, the property loss adjuster, surveyed the damage and requested the balance sheet from Tom＊s Tools in order to review the inventory figure. What other information does David need in order to bring the inventory figure up to the date of loss?
A. All fiscal year-end physical inventory figures since Tom＊s Tools opened for business.
B. The purchase and sales records since the most recent physical inventory date.
C. Previous claims on inventory loss prior to the loss caused by the tropical storm.
D. A breakdown of the company＊s fixed assets and equipment.

B is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).

The most recent physical inventory date is needed in order to examine purchases and sales recorded since that date. This is used to determine the inventory figure at the date of loss.

15. Austin＊s Sporting Goods has suffered damages due to high winds and rain in June 20x1. Austin＊s inventory was $105,000 in January 20X1. In March 20X1, Austin＊s Sporting Goods purchased an additional $44,000 of inventory. The cost of sporting goods sold before the loss was $85,000. The property loss adjuster examines Austin＊s balance sheet and determines that his inventory remaining on the date of loss is:
A. $45,000.
B. $54,000.
C. $64,000.
D. $65,000.

C is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).
 

The amount remaining in inventory is calculated as follows:
Amount in last physical inventory 每 $105,000
Plus: amount added to the inventory 每 $44,000
Equals: amount that could have been sold 每 $149,000
Less: cost of goods sold 每 ($85,000)
Equals: amount remaining in inventory on date of loss 每 $64,000

16. Charlie＊s Stereos suffered fire damage in August. Their books and records indicated the following:
Inventory in January 每 $50,000
Inventory purchased during the year before the loss 每 $90,000
Cost of goods sold before the loss 每 $95,000
The inventory remaining on the date of the loss is:

A. $30,000.
B. $45,000.
C. $50,000.
D. $55,000.

B is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).
 

The amount remaining in inventory is calculated as follows:
Amount in last physical inventory 每 $50,000
Plus: amount added to the inventory 每$90,000
Equals: amount that could have been sold 每 $140,000
Less: cost of goods sold 每 ($95,000)
Equals: amount remaining in inventory on date of loss 每 $45,000

17. Flores Floral Boutique had an inventory of $50,000 at the beginning of the year. Throughout the year, $25,000 worth of floral arrangement materials were added. The inventory at the end of the year was $28,000. Flores Floral Boutique＊s cost of goods sold was:
A. $22,000.
B. $47,000.
C. $48,000.
D. $53,000.

B is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).
 

The cost of goods sold is calculated as follows:
Beginning inventory 每 $50,000
Plus: amount added to the inventory 每 $25,000
Equals: amount that could have been sold 每 $75,000
Less: ending inventory 每 ($28,000)
Equals: cost of goods sold 每 $47,000

18. Jayco＊s Computers reflected the following on their books and records:
Retail sales 每 $1,000,000
Cost of goods sold 每 $700,000
Gross profit 每 $300,000
What is Jayco＊s cost-to-sales ratio?

A. 30%
B. 43%
C. 70%
D. 100%

C is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).

The cost-to-sales ratio is calculated using the following formula:
Cost-to-sales ratio = Cost of goods sold / Retail sales
Cost-to-sales ratio = $700,000 / $1,000,000
Cost-to-sales ratio = 70%

19. Sara runs an office furniture business. If her retail sales were $200,000 and the cost-to-sales ratio is 55%, what is the cost of goods sold for the business?
A. $90,000.
B. $110,000.
C. $180,000.
D. $360,000.

B is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).
 
The cost of goods sold can be determined using the following formula:
Cost of goods sold = Retail sales x cost-to-sales ratio
Cost of goods sold = $200,000 x 55%
Cost of goods sold = $110,000

20. Which one of the following represents a method of continuously tracking inventory that may not have been reconciled to the actual physical inventory?
A. Perpetual inventory.
B. Uniform capitalization.
C. Returns and allowances.
D. Accrual method of accounting.

A is correct (Obj 3 每 Type A).

Perpetual inventory represents a method of continuously tracking inventory that may not have been reconciled to the actual physical inventory.

21. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding a perpetual inventory?
A. It almost always agrees with the results of the physical inventory taken on the same date.
B. Adjusters should depend on the accuracy of the perpetual inventory figure as long as the insured entered the data.
C. It replaces the need for producing a book inventory.
D. Its accuracy is dependent upon the accuracy of the data entry method used.

D is correct (Obj 3 每 Type A).

A is incorrect. A perpetual inventory figure is almost never equivalent to the results of a physical inventory.
B is incorrect. Adjusters should not depend on the accuracy of the perpetual inventory figure because people make mistakes. Adjusters who have become very concerned about the accuracy of the insured's data-entry method should seek the services of a Certified Public Accountant.
C is incorrect. Perpetual inventory is not necessarily accurate and does not eliminate the need for a book inventory.

22. Winston Electronics Store＊s income statement reflected the following:
Gross sales of DVD players 每 $76,000
Net sales of DVD players 每 $68,000
Cost of goods sold 每 $35,000
What is the amount of gross profit for Winston Electronics Store?

A. $31,000.
B. $33,000.
C. $41,000.
D. $43,000.

B is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).

Net sales ($68,000) less the total cost of DVD players ($35,000) equals $33,000 gross profit.

23. Ralph＊s business contained the following information on the income statement:
Gross sales 每 $120,000
Returns and allowances 每 $3,000
Cost of goods sold 每 $74,000
Gross profit 每 $43,000
Miscellaneous expenses 每 $38,500
What is the amount of net income from the business?

A. $4,500.
B. $26,500.
C. $39,500.
D. $46,000.

A is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).
 

Since the gross profit amount has been provided, the following formula can be used to determine the net income:

Net income = Gross profit - Miscellaneous expenses
Net income = $43,000 - $38,500
Net income = $4,500

24. Smith Enterprises has the following information provided on their income statement from January 1 to December 31.
Gross sales                                    $200,000
Returns and Allowances:               $2,000
Costs of merchandise sold:      $130,000
Gross profit:                                      $73,500
Other expenses:                             $42,000
Based upon this record, what is the net income of Smith Enterprises?

A. $21,500.
B. $26,000.
C. $31,500.
D. $46,000.

C is correct (Obj 3 每 Type B).
 

Since the gross profit amount has been provided, the following formula can be used to determine the net income:

Net income = Gross profit - Other expenses
Net income = $73,500 - $42,000
Net income = $31,500

25. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding a salvor?
A. A salvor＊s primary expertise is in remediating the restoration and repair of damaged property.
B. The salvor＊s fees and commissions are paid out of the merchandise sale proceeds.
C. An independent adjuster typically chooses a salvor without consulting the insurer.
D. Ownership of the damaged merchandise is transferred from the insured to the salvor.

B is correct (Obj 4每 Type A).

A is incorrect. A salvor＊s primary expertise is in preserving and realizing the value remaining in partially damaged merchandise.
C is incorrect. An independent adjuster should not choose a salvor without first consulting the insurer.
D is incorrect. The insured still owns the damaged merchandise. The salvor cannot take the merchandise without first obtaining permission from the insured.

26. All of the following statements are correct regarding the salvage process, EXCEPT:
A. Adjusters call upon a salvor＊s services for claims involving thefts, equipment, and valuable papers.
B. The salvor will assess the damaged goods to determine the best possible market for them.
C. The salvor must discuss highly perishable edible product losses with a local health department.
D. The salvor works closely with the insured and employees to separate damaged and undamaged goods.

A is correct (Obj 4 每 Type A).

Adjusters call upon salvors on claims involving merchandise.

27. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding a salvor?
A. A professional salvor should intercede in a dispute between the adjuster and the insured.
B. If a salvor is to be used following a loss, the insured should be told because the insured will need to witness the salvage procedures.
C. If the adjuster determines a salvor is needed, the salvor should be contacted at the end of the adjustment process.
D. When necessary, the salvor must communicate with a health and food inspector.

D is correct (Obj 4 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. A professional salvor should not intercede in any dispute between the adjuster and the insured.
B is incorrect. If a salvor is to be used following a loss, the insured should be told because the salvor will probably arrive while the adjuster is not present.
C is incorrect. If the adjuster determines a salvor is needed, the salvor should be contacted at the beginning of the adjustment process.

28. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the insured＊s liability to the salvor?
A. The insured is typically liable for the salvor＊s compensation.
B. The salvor＊s fees and commissions come out of the sale proceeds.
C. An insured is not permitted to contract with the salvor directly.
D. If the salvor believes the damaged merchandise is safe on the insured＊s property, the salvor bears the risk if they are wrong.

B is correct (Obj 4 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. The insured is never liable for the salvor＊s compensation (unless the salvor is directly contracted by the insured).
C is incorrect. The insured can contract with the salvor directly.
D is incorrect. If the salvor believes the damaged merchandise is safe on the insured＊s property, the insurer bears the risk if the salvor is wrong.

29. When working on settling a merchandise loss with the insured, an adjuster can choose to settle in all the following ways, EXCEPT:
A. Pay the insured a value of the merchandise as determined by the insurer and take the salvage for the account of the salvor.
B. Sell the salvage on the account of the insured and pay the insured the difference between the salvage proceeds and the merchandise＊s insured value.
C. Agree with the insured on the merchandise＊s percentage of damage, paying the insured for that percentage of value and leaving the merchandise with the insured for disposal.
D. Pay the insured the full value of the merchandise and take the salvage for the account of the insurer.

A is correct (Obj 4 每 Type A).
 

When working on settling a merchandise loss with the insured, an adjuster can choose to settle in all the following ways:

Sell the salvage on the account of the insured and pay the insured the difference between the salvage proceeds and the merchandise＊s insured value.
Agree with the insured on the merchandise＊s percentage of damage, paying the insured for that percentage of value and leaving the merchandise with the insured for disposal.
Pay the insured the full value of the merchandise and take the salvage for the account of the insurer.


30. Which one of the following represents a way of accounting for salvage proceeds?
A. Sale on account of salvor.
B. Bailee sale.
C. Sale on account of cosigner.
D. Sale on account of insured.

D is correct (Obj 4 每 Type A).
 

The following are ways of accounting for salvage proceeds:

Sale on account of insurer.
Sale on account of insured.
Sale on account of whom it may concern.


31. Steven is the owner of a tire shop that has suffered a loss of goods due to flooding. It is determined that a salvage company must be used to help preserve and determine the value of the partially damaged goods. Steven, the insured, has never worked with a salvor before. Which of the following statements is correct regarding what should be communicated to Steven before the salvage company is involved?
A. The fees must be paid up front to the salvage company.
B. The adjustor must be present during the salvor＊s physical inventory process.
C. The insured must be present during the salvor＊s physical inventory process.
D. The salvor may arrive while the adjuster is not on the premises.

D is correct (Obj 4 每 Type B).
 

The salvor may arrive while the adjuster is not present.

 

A is incorrect. The salvor＊s payment comes out of the sale proceeds.
B is incorrect. The adjustor does not need to be present during the physical inventory process.
C is incorrect. The insured does not need to be present during the physical inventory process.

32. After a fire loss, the insured and insurer agree that the full value of the damaged merchandise is $200,000. The salvage is sold on account of the insured, and the net proceeds from the salvage sale is $60,000. How much will the insurer pay for this loss?
A. $60,000.
B. $140,000.
C. $200,000.
D. $260,000.

B is correct (Obj 4 每 Type B).
 

If the salvage is sold on account of the insured, the amount the insurer will pay is based on the following formula:

Amount Insured Will Pay = Agreed Full Value - Net Proceeds from Salvage Sale
Amount Insured Will Pay = $200,000 - $60,000
Amount Insured Will Pay = $140,000

33. After a fire loss, an adjuster and insured agreed the damaged merchandise＊s full value is $500,000. Under the ※sale on the account of the insurer§ method of handling salvage proceeds, if the salvage net proceeds to the insurer are $220,000, the insurer＊s net payment is:
A. $0.
B. $220,000.
C. $280,000.
D. $500,000.

C is correct (Obj 4 每 Type B).

Under the ※sale on the account of the insurer§ method, the insurer pays the insured the full insured value of the merchandise. The insurer then keeps the salvage value of the merchandise after it is sold.

Therefore, the net payment by the insurer is based on the following formula:

Insurer＊s Net Payment = Agreed Full Value - Net Proceeds from Salvage Sale
Insurer＊s Net Payment = $500,000 - $220,000
Insurer＊s Net Payment = $280,000

34. After a fire loss, the insured discovers that she must bear a coinsurance penalty of 25%. The full value of the damaged merchandise is $100,000, and the proceeds of the salvage sale are $20,000. The insurer＊s net payment is:
A. $20,000.
B. $25,000.
C. $60,000.
D. $80,000.

C is correct (Obj 4 每 Type B).

Based on the coinsurance percentage of 25%, the insurer would pay no more than 75% of the loss, or $75,000 ($100,000 x 75%).

The net proceeds of the salvage sale will be shared as follows:
Insurer = 75% x $20,000 = $15,000
Insured = 25% x $20,000 = $5,000

The insurer＊s net payment will be:
Insurer＊s Net Payment = Maximum Amount Insurer Will Pay - Insurer＊s Share of Salvage Sale Proceeds
Insurer＊s Net Payment = $75,000 - $15,000
Insurer＊s Net Payment = $60,000

35. After a fire loss, the insured discovers that she must bear a coinsurance penalty of 25%. The full value of the damaged merchandise is $100,000, and the proceeds of the salvage sale are $20,000. The insured＊s net loss will be:
A. $0.
B. $5,000.
C. $15,000.
D. $20,000.

D is correct (Obj 4 每 Type B).
 
If the insured is required to bear a coinsurance penalty, the insured will share in the net proceeds of the salvage sale in the same percentage as the loss.
Insured＊s Portion of Salvage Sale Proceeds = Salvage Sale Proceeds x Coinsurance Penalty
Insured＊s Portion of Salvage Sale Proceeds = $20,000 x 25%
Insured＊s Portion of Salvage Sale Proceeds = $5,000

Therefore, the insured＊s net loss will be $20,000, calculated as follows:
Insured＊s Net Loss = (Total Value x Coinsurance Percentage) - Insured＊s Portion of Salvage Sale Proceeds
Insured＊s Net Loss = ($100,000 x 25%) - $5,000
Insured＊s Net Loss = ($25,000) - $5,000
Insured＊s Net Loss = $20,000

36. Which one of the following statements is correct with respect to the Value Reporting Form?
A. It requires the insured to report property values to the insurer periodically.
B. It applies to both business real and personal property.
C. It modifies the limit of insurance with each report from the insured.
D. It is often the most effective way for small firms to match coverage to exposures.

A is correct. (Obj 5 每 Type A).

B is incorrect. The Value Reporting Form applies only to business personal property.
C is incorrect. The Value Reporting Form covers the fluctuating values of business personal property by providing insurance for the insured＊s maximum expected values without modifying the limit of insurance.
D is incorrect. Many smaller firms do not have accounting systems of sufficient sophistication to generate the required reports, and many insurers would decline to issue a Value Reporting Form for a smaller insured because the premium may not be large enough to warrant the added expense of processing the reports and calculating the final premium.

37. The Peak Season Limit of Insurance endorsement:
A. Provides coverage for business personal property based on the values that the insured reports to the insurer periodically during the policy period.
B. Differs from the Value Reporting form in that it may lead to over-insuring or under-insuring fluctuating merchandise values.
C. Gives additional coverage for the higher costs incurred as a result of labor and materials being in short supply after a widespread disaster.
D. Allows for differing amounts of insurance for selected time periods during the policy term.

D is correct. (Obj 5 每 Type A).
 

A is incorrect. Coverage for business personal property based on the values that the insured reports to the insurer periodically during the policy period is provided through the Value Reporting Form. The Peak Season Limit endorsement does not require regular reporting of values.
B is incorrect. The Peak Season Limit of Insurance Endorsement and the Value Reporting form both provide a way to avoid over-insuring or under-insuring fluctuating merchandise values.
C is incorrect. The Increase in Rebuilding Expenses Following Disaster endorsement covers the higher costs incurred as a result of labor and materials being in short supply after a widespread disaster.

38. ABC Company is covered by a Business and Personal Property (BPP) form. They are considering either a Value Reporting form or Peak Season endorsement to cover the value of changing inventory levels over the course of the year. Which of the following statements is correct regarding these options?
A. The Value Reporting form offers the advantage of not paying for additional BPP limits that are not needed.
B. The Value Reporting form will pay no more than 80% of the amount that would have otherwise been paid if, at the time of loss, the first report is due but has not been received.
C. The Peak Season endorsement provides increased limits based on values ABC Company would report periodically during the policy period.
D. The Peak Season endorsement decreases the deductible during the peak season.

A is correct. (Obj 5 每 Type A).

B is incorrect. If, at the time of loss, the first required report of values is due but has not been received, the insurer will pay no more than 75% of the amount that would otherwise have been paid.
C is incorrect. The Value Reporting form provides increased limits based on values ABC Company would report periodically during the policy period.
D is incorrect. The Peak Season endorsement does not provide for a change in the deductible during the peak season.

39. Rusty＊s Roofs has a Peak Season Limit of Insurance endorsement on its commercial property policy to cover the regular increase of inventory each summer. Rusty＊s Roofs decides to stock up on inventory in March after a particularly heavy hail storm. Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the coverage provided?
A. Rusty＊s Roofs will not have adequate coverage because the March increase is not scheduled on the endorsement.
B. As long as Rusty＊s Roofs reports the increased values of inventory in March, the policy limit will increase accordingly.
C. Rusty＊s Roofs will incur a penalty from their insurer unless they report the unexpected increase by March 31.
D. For the most cost effective coverage, Rusty＊s Roofs should convert their policy to blanket insurance.

A is correct. (Obj 5 每 Type B).

B is incorrect. The Peak Season Limit of Insurance endorsement does not allow for the reporting of fluctuating market values during the policy period (the Value Reporting form does this). Consequently, their policy will only provide increased coverage for the scheduled increased value of inventory during the summer months. The increase in March will not be adequately insured.
C is incorrect. The Peak Season Limit of Insurance endorsement does not allow for the reporting of fluctuating market values during the policy period (the Value Reporting form does this). Consequently, their policy does not provide for increased coverage, even with the payment of a penalty, for the unscheduled increase in value of inventory during March.
D is incorrect. Blanket insurance is most helpful for insuring fluctuating values across multiple locations.

40. Innovations, Inc. insures its business personal property with a Building and Personal Property Coverage Form with a Value Reporting form. The limit of insurance is $1,000,000 with a $5,000 deductible, and reports are due monthly. In June, a business personal property loss of $250,000 occurs from a covered peril. May＊s report stated the value of the business personal property was $200,000, but the actual value at the time of the report was $250,000. What amount would the insurer pay for this loss?
A. $195,000.
B. $200,000.
C. $245,000.
D. $250,000.

A is correct. (Obj 5 每 Type B).

If the last report showed less than the full value of covered property on the report date, the insurer would pay claims according to the following formula:

Insurer＊s payment = [(Value reported/Actual value) x Loss] 每 Deductible
Insurer＊s payment = [($200,000/$250,000) * $250,000] - $5,000
Insurer＊s payment = $195,000

41. Power＊s Flowers, a small chain of stores selling floral arrangements, has an extremely busy period during the two weeks before Valentine＊s Day, requiring it to significantly increase its inventory during this period. To adequately cover its fluctuating inventory values and keep premiums to a minimum, Power＊s Flowers should purchase a Building and Personal Property Coverage Form (BPP) with:
A. Spoilage Coverage endorsement.
B. Value Reporting Form.
C. An Agreed Value coverage extension.
D. The Peak Season Limit of Insurance endorsement.

D is correct. (Obj 5 每 Type B).

The Peak Season Limit of Insurance endorsement covers the fluctuating values of business personal property by providing differing amounts of insurance for certain time frames during the policy period.

42. Thomas Manufacturing Company has a Commercial Package Policy (CPP) that has a Building and Personal Property Coverage Form (BPP) with a Causes of Loss 每 Broad Form. The building has a $1,000,000 limit and the business personal property is insured under a Value Reporting Form subject to a $500,000 limit. The last report of value was made on a timely basis and accurately showed the value of personal property to be $425,000 at the time of the report. Two weeks later, a fire destroyed the building and also destroyed personal property. The personal property had risen in value to $445,000. Assuming a $5,000 deductible, how much will the insurer pay for the loss on the personal property?
A. $420,000.
B. $425,000.
C. $440,000.
D. $445,000.

C is correct. (Obj 5 每 Type B).
 
Under a Value Reporting Form, as long as the insured reports values accurately and on time, the insurer
will pay the full amount of any loss up to the policy limit, less any deductible. Therefore, the insurer will
pay for the $445,000 loss, less the $5,000 deductible.